# School_District_Analysis

## Project Overview 
In this project, the task was to work with city school district data for analysis, reporting, and presentation to provide insights about performance trends and patterns. These insights are used to inform discussions and strategic decisions at the school and district level. I was given access to every student's math and reading scores, as well as various information on the schools they attend. My task was to aggregate the data and showcase trends in school performance. Looking more specifically at this, I followed the following steps to achieve this goal:

1. Collect the Data: displaying the data by building a path to the data file and creating a dataframe to display the data.
2. Prepare the Data: After the removal of null values, isna().sum() displays 0 for all the columns. After the removal of duplicates, duplicated().sum() displays no duplicates. The column types are displayed. The "th" suffix is removed from all the values in the "grade" column. The "grade" column is successfully converted to an int type. 
3. Summarize the Data: The summary statistics for the DataFrame and the mean of the "math_score" column are displayed, and the minimum of the "reading_score" column is stored in min_reading_score.
4. Drill Down into the Data: The following are displayed: the "grade" column is displayed, the first three rows of Columns 3, 4, and 5, the summary statistics for 9th graders, the row that contains the minimum reading score, the reading scores of the 10th graders at Dixon High School, and the average reading score of all the students in Grades 11 and 12 combined is calculated. 
5. Compare the Data: displaying and comparing average budget for each school type, the total number of students per school in descending order, and the average math scores for each combination of grade and school type
6. Report Findings: using this READMe document to report on the performed analysis

## Report Findings

While performing analysis on the student data, I noticed that the average school budgets for public schools is about $40,000 greater than the average budgets for charter schools. This can help inform budgeting needs for schools across districts and can open the department up to conducting further analysis on the reasons behind this difference in funding and whether it makes sense for these different types of schools. Secondly, having access to the number of students at high schools is important data for many different aspects of studying school statistics, including understanding budgets and looking at academic scores. Knowing which schools having higher student populations than others will help in understanding what they need and the progress they make. For example, Montgomery High School has the highest student population at 2038 students, which will mean that their budget, test scores, and needs will look different than Chang High School, which has 171 students. Lastly, being able to look at the average math scores in public and charter schools, and to see these scores by grade, can help the district see where the greatest needs are for math intervention across schools. For example, we can see that 9th grade in charter schools have the highest math scores, but the average math score decreases across charter schools as students advance in high school. This is just one example of an aspect that could merit a deeper dive to understand the why behind these numbers and what can be done to support these students and teachers in increasing scores. 
